One of the things that we kind of
just alluded to that we haven't
really talked about is input fields.
Yeah, the normal one is super easy,
you type into it, right?
What do you do with a range or
like a select, right?
Clearly, you're going to need
to be able to use these.
And so, there's different kinds
of ways for each of them, and
then there's the kind of there's typing
into input field, super easy, right?
Maybe we need something for checking
a checkbox or radio button, right?
Or something along those lines, probably
a select, like a drop down, right?
And then we have the kind of nuclear
option, right, for changing one.
So let's I'm gonna do a few of them and
then I have that input
obstacle course where you can
try a number of other ones.
And then we'll kinda look at them and
see how we might work with a few
of these as we go through.
So, if I go into other inputs, specs,
let me just swap that over in Cypress.
And these will pass, right?
Here I found some data set that
the reference sources at the bottom of
the page,
if you wanna find the data set itself.
But I found this data set,
and it was apparently,
all of the secret menu items at
a number of fast food chains, right?
So not only will you learn Cypress today,
you will learn that Chick-fil-A
has an ice dream, which is a different
kid's meal prize, apparently,
just getting a two cheeseburger meal
is the McDonald's secret menu item.
I grew up in a world where that was
just on the menu, apparently, it's not.
But anyway, at your leisure, during lunch,
after you've eaten or
something along those lines,
you can peruse this list and
possibly, learn something new.
The more important part for
our purposes is it's got a few of
those squirrely input fields, right?
It's got me filtering just
by a restaurant, right?
Or I've got some checkboxes
where I can hide columns or
I can filter by a minimum rating.
I believe that the only thing
reading it's popularity that
only a Butterbeer Frappuccino
reaches the tier of a level
seven is popularity rating,
nothing else reaches that.
Again, I will leave it to you to probably
spend more time exploring the list itself
than the Cypress implications around it.
But what I am going to seek to
do right now is at least control
these three sets of different inputs, and
you can guess where this goes next, right?
But this should cover most of the things
that you need to know in order to kind of
work with these.
So let's try it out.
So if I go over,
they pass cuz they're not doing anything.
So, yeah, no ops are great.
I do have some aliases, right?
I did grab on to the minimum rating
visibility that was that range filter,
as well as the drop down, which is that
select, which is the restaurant filter.
There's a bunch of textboxes, so like
what else, just grab one at some point.
So we have that in place.
So actually, we're gonna do these
a little bit of a reverse order.
Let's do the select, right?
Cuz that probably gonna be the first,
yeah,
with checkboxes you can
text them to click on them.
But as you saw, we did before with the
labels and that's how it kind of works,
but let's go with
the select of this point.
So I can do side I get, and
we'll say restaurant-filter, right?
Which is that alias that
we made up at the top, and
we will select I'm not ready for
the tweets,
the best fast food chain
in existence don't ask me.
Tanner is making faces like getting
vegan Taco Bell is a matter
of personal pride even when I'm
not eating vegan, it's doable.
So we wanted to go ahead and
we want to select it, right?
And then you might want also
verify that in this case,
if you select it,
that's the value that it has.
Sometimes you want the act
of changing it and
sometimes you want to assert
that it hasn't given value.
In a later one, we will literally create a
battalion of tests that goes through each
one and then verifies that
the stuff on the page is correct.
But for now, I want to set it and
then I wanna verify that
Cypress didn't lie to me.
And that it actually if I go get that
value, that it's what I think it is.
So then we'll go and
we'll get the same restaurant filter.
And then I want to say, listen, if I
select Taco Bell, it should have the value
Taco Bell Right?
So that's both how to change a select
field and then how to read it.
It was verify that I didn't lie to you,
you can argue you said Taco Bell was good,
thereby you lied to me,
that's I'm not doing that right now,
I'm only talking about Cypress.
So we can also do something
with the checkbox, right?
So this is kind of interesting, because
I might want to, again, assert things.
We know that we can click on the checkbox,
but you might also wanna assert.
Like in HTML, a checkbox has an action
accurate attribute called checked or
it's either checked or not checked.
And when we get to the other thing later,
we'll see that radio buttons,
you might wanna know different
things about them as well.
So in this case, I'm just gonna get
a checkbox, I don't really care which one.
And careful viewers will notice I'm
gonna do something tricky with the alias
as well that I didn't show you before.
So go ahead and
get me an input of the type checkbox,
in this given case,
I don't care which one.
Save it cuz I'm gonna need
to look at it later, right,
as a checkbox, and then check it, right?
So the active saving as an alias is
effectively almost like a tap or
a pass through, all right?
And so, I can continue
chaining it along like this.
And then I could say,
The actual checkbox, and
I could say should be checked.
If you check the checkbox, if I didn't
make up this check method, right?
Then the act of calling it should in fact,
check the checkbox in this case, right?
Cool, so we've got that in there as well.
One of the things I'm kinda curious
about if I could do is, again, slowly,
It gonna chain it like that, you can
argue, who knows why I would do that?
But, yes, that'll work as well.
So this chaining all the time is kinda
interesting, you can a lot of times keep
the chain going, you can verify,
you can do more stuff.
You can make another assertion,
you can do some more stuff,
you can make another assertion.
And that's what we're
talking about before,
the thing you were told the unit test
is break them down into small pieces,
one little setup, one little action,
one little verification.
Here we can go through an entire
user flow in a chain and
kind of what work through
everything as well.
So sometimes alias is the right choice,
sometimes getting comfortable with
the chain, but sometimes you start
with alias and you refactor it, right?
Like these are all options.
My job is to tell you that they exist, and
kinda point you in the different
set of trade offs.
All right, now the problematic one.
So some of them, yeah, it was great that
a select field had a method called select.
Awesome, neat.
It was wonderful that the checkbox
had the method called check.
I don't even know what you
would name one on range, right?
And so, this one's a little bit tricky.
And even if you were writing react or
something along those lines or spelled or
what have you, you would probably
listen for a change event, but
you'd have to set the value.
Well, that's kind of the answer, right,
and how you were doing your regular code.
There isn't a useful helper
method out of the box later,
we'll talk about you can make your own.
But there isn't one in this case, so
effectively when all else fails and
you do not have a check method or
a select method or what have you.
It is basically not dissimilar from
what you would do in your react
spelled Angular code, or whatever,
but we'd like jQuery, right?
Or what would you do with jQuery, right?
Which is effectively set the value and
then trigger the event, right?
And that should update the terms, code,
to kinda make all of those things happen.
So now we just have to talk
about how we will do that,
and so, in this case,
we'll just cy a get writing filter.
And we will say, we know that invoke
calls a method on the other underlying
object but puts it back in the chain.
So we'll say invoke val,
which is the jQuery method for
with no argument getting you the value
with a second argument setting the value,
cuz we don't talk about enough,
jQuery has the best API ever.
No, I do not want to install
Docker desktop every day.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And then I can trigger,
it's kind of up to you, depending on the
implication is you have trigger change or
you could trigger input.
I'm going to trigger input, but
try them both out, they should work.
And so, I wanna trigger it and
then I could go ahead and
say that we did the checkbox.
Go ahead, get that rating filter,
and then it should,
Have a value.
Of, in this case seven.
Because input fields even if
there are a number field,
you always get it as a string.
So, yeah, cool, and so all of those work,
you can actually see it for a second.
If I do the only there for this one test,
You can see that it did move it to seven,
only the Butterbeer remains.
The Butterbeer Frappuccino, right?
So it's verifying that not only is it
working because it's not failing, but
it is actually doing the thing
that I needed to do as well.